README.md, before:

# HMBS System  
<h3 align="center">
Housekeeping Management Borrowing System for the College of Business Administration
</h3>

<p align="center">
  <img src="./react-frontend/src/assets/site-images/hmbs-logo-white.png" alt="HMBS Logo" width="180" />
</p>

---

## About  
The **Hospitality Management Borrowing System (HMBS)** is a digital tracking platform designed to monitor the **issuance, borrowing, return, and inventory** of kitchen tools and equipment used by Hospitality Management students during laboratory activities.  

This system promotes accountability and professional responsibility among students by ensuring proper handling and timely return of borrowed items.

---

## Features  

### 👩‍🎓 Student View  
- Browse the full catalogue of tools and equipment with **search and filter** functions  
- Use an **ordering and cart system** for faster item selection  
- **Simplified borrow request form** with structured input fields  
- Track **request progress** including approval status and completed transactions  

### 👨‍🏫 Staff View  
- **Approve or deny** submitted borrow requests  
- **(Admin)** Manage inventory — create, update, or delete items  
- **(Admin)** Manage user accounts — create or delete users  
- **(Admin)** Track item flow and state changes *(released, returned, under review)*  
- **(Admin)** Complete transactions once all items are reviewed and returned  

---

## Technologies Used  
- **Frontend:** React  
- **Backend:** Express.js with Node.js  
- **Database:** NeDB (development) → PostgreSQL (production)  

---

## Authors & Contributors  
| Name | Role | Contributions |
|------|------|----------------|
| Jane Rose Bandoy | Project Lead | Systems Analysis, Database Management, Backend Integration |
| Avi Grace Abellana |  UI/UX Designer, Front-End Developer| Designed UI and developed front-end pages |

---

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Frontend-React-61dafb?logo=react&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Backend-Express.js-000000?logo=express&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Runtime-Node.js-339933?logo=node.js&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PostgreSQL-336791?logo=postgresql&logoColor=white" />
</p>

Commit message:

Modified files - Deployment Setup added

README.md, after:

# HMBS System  
<h3 align="center">
Housekeeping Management Borrowing System for the College of Business Administration
</h3>

<p align="center">
  <img src="./react-frontend/src/assets/site-images/hmbs-logo-white.png" alt="HMBS Logo" width="180" />
</p>

---

## About  
The **Hospitality Management Borrowing System (HMBS)** is a digital tracking platform designed to monitor the **issuance, borrowing, return, and inventory** of kitchen tools and equipment used by Hospitality Management students during laboratory activities.  

This system promotes accountability and professional responsibility among students by ensuring proper handling and timely return of borrowed items.

---

## Features  

### 👩‍🎓 Student View  
- Browse the full catalogue of tools and equipment with **search and filter** functions  
- Use an **ordering and cart system** for faster item selection  
- **Simplified borrow request form** with structured input fields  
- Track **request progress** including approval status and completed transactions  

### 👨‍🏫 Staff View  
- **Approve or deny** submitted borrow requests  
- **(Admin)** Manage inventory — create, update, or delete items  
- **(Admin)** Manage user accounts — create or delete users  
- **(Admin)** Track item flow and state changes *(released, returned, under review)*  
- **(Admin)** Complete transactions once all items are reviewed and returned  

---

## Technologies Used  
- **Frontend:** React  
- **Backend:** Express.js with Node.js  
- **Database:** NeDB (development) → PostgreSQL (production)  

---

## 🚀 Deployment

For local deployment instructions and auto-start setup, see [DEPLOYMENT.md](DEPLOYMENT.md).

**Quick Start:**
1. Double-click `start-hmbs.bat` in the project root
2. Open browser and navigate to `http://localhost:5173`

---

## Authors & Contributors  
| Name | Role | Contributions |
|------|------|----------------|
| Jane Rose Bandoy | Project Lead | Systems Analysis, Database Management, Backend Integration |
| Avi Grace Abellana |  UI/UX Designer, Front-End Developer| Designed UI and developed front-end pages |

---

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Frontend-React-61dafb?logo=react&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Backend-Express.js-000000?logo=express&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Runtime-Node.js-339933?logo=node.js&logoColor=white" />
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PostgreSQL-336791?logo=postgresql&logoColor=white" />
</p>
